# INTRODUCTION

NOTE 1 — It is impossible to include the whole book of Mark in twenty-six lessons, or in six months' time, the period allotted to it by the International Sabbath-school Committee. It has been thought best, therefore, to gather out its most striking and important lessons, instead of attempting to cover the entire life and ministry of Christ. Of the connection historically and chronologically we will say but very little, as Mark follows no strictly chronological order, and to attempt to explain the chronology of each event in the life of Christ with Mark for a basis would invite controversy and divert the mind of the student from the real lesson. The writer of the book of Mark was a Hebrew, whose name was also John, spoken of as "John, whose surname was Mark" (Acts 12:12); he was nephew to Barnabas, and accompanied Paul and Barnabas for a time in the work, but for some reason, displeasing to Paul, left them (Acts 13:5, 13; 15:37, 38). He afterward became profitable to the apostle, and was an instrument in the hand of God in spreading abroad the gospel. Although the shortest of the gospels, Mark is very full in its suggestions. Only three years of our Lord's ministry is related by him.

NOTE 2 — SUGGESTIONS ON THE STUDY OF THE LESSONS — The student will be helped very materially in the study of these lessons if he will first read prayerfully, carefully, thoughtfully, the Scripture covered by the lesson, and then the parallel passages in the other gospels, before studying by questions. Wherever the parallel passage is referred to after a question, it is because it brings out an additional thought, or adds force to the regular lesson scripture. Do not be satisfied with surface thoughts, or with the delving and mining of others. Dig deep till the truth comes fresh to your own mind and heart; for only so will it do you good. Those who have "Great Controversy" ("Spirit of Prophecy"), Vol. 2, will find therein great help on many of these lessons. Unfortunately, the book is out of publication, so that copies cannot be supplied at our publishing houses.