# INTRODUCTION

Since the days of Abraham, the promises of God to men have been confined to the "Seed of Abraham." The record tells us that the promises were not to the seeds—or natural descendants of Abraham—but to, and through, one Seed, who is Christ. Gal. 3:16, 29. While in the fleshly line Christ was to be counted as the "seed" of Abraham, in His divinity He was before Abraham (John 8:58), and was therefore his Lord and Saviour, the same as He is ours. But the fact that Christ was to be born in the flesh of Abraham's seed, and so to become possessor of the "promised land," made it necessary for Him to be born in that land, from whence was to flow to all nations the promised blessings to Abraham's seed. Gal. 3:7-9, 13, 14.

The scenes of the life of Christ are therefore confined to the land of "Canaan," also termed Palestine. Allowing these names to apply to the entire territory covered by the twelve tribes of Israel, it embraces a sort of parallelogram of country with an area of nearly 12,000 square miles, or a territory about the size of Massachusetts and Connecticut combined. If, however, we confine Palestine to the country between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River, between Mount Lebanon on the north, and the desert on the south, as is often done, we contract it to about 6,600 square miles in dimensions, or to a territory smaller than the state of Massachusetts by 1,200 square miles.

In this narrow compass of territory was the earthly work of Christ accomplished. To become familiar with each locality of this limited region ought not to be a large task, yet even this will require considerable patient research. But this should not be the principal object in studying the life of Christ. Every student of His life should study Christ Himself—His character, His quiet demeanor, His methods of labor for the uplifting of humanity, and His bearing under the stroke of persecution. In this way alone can the Student of the following lessons hope to be benefited.

Study well the side texts in conjunction with the lessons. Study them at home all through the week, and the life of Christ will shine with new luster in your minds. They may not all of them seem to have direct bearing on the subject, but they will be found very helpful to all who desire to dig for hid treasures. The plan of placing these texts in the margin is a new one, which we trust will prove satisfactory and useful to students. Another new departure in this number of the LESSON QUARTERLY is the publication of a map of the country and places mentioned in the lesson scripture. We believe this feature will give added value to the QUARTERLY, and be greatly appreciated by our schools.

THE SURPLUS DONATIONS during the present quarter will be used in the most needy fields. We are informed by the president of the Foreign Mission Board that India, Japan, and Africa will need most of our donations during 1899. Therefore these fields may be studied by our people.